---
title: "Halara v3.0"
date: 2022-12-6
author: Cooper Sullivan
authorLink: "https://coopersully.me"
tags: ["server", "documentation"]
categories: ["documentation"]
image: "images/posts/headers/season/3.png"
type: "featured"
draft: false
---

*This page is an update log for Halara’s development. If this log is for a version other than the most recent, the information below may not be an accurate depiction of Halara’s active server(s).
In addition to this, if you are reading this log within the first few minutes of it’s release, the changes below may not yet be fully added to Halara’s active server(s). These logs exist to better
connect the creative and development team behind Halara with it's users.*

***

If you're late to the party, Minecraft: Java Edition 1.19 is out everywhere; and with the new update
comes a new season of Halara! Welcome to Halara: Season 3. Here are a few of the highlights:

# General changes
- **No map reset this time**; this includes inventory, etc.
- **All MCMMO skills from previous seasons will be kept**. This point may carry on to future seasons; we're testing out skill carry-overs.

# New content
## Items and blocks
- **There are 50+ new Treasure Items** to collect, upgrade, & explore with 2 new questlines.
- Treasure Items are being slowly integrated into the world, so look out for new items in dungeon loot and boss fights!
- Let's be honest, The Warden's loot is pretty lame in survival. We upgraded his loot table to drop a few new goodies:
    * **"Warden's Ear"** drops from killing the Warden
		* This can be used to create **"Sculk Boots"** that can highlight nearby mobs.
    * **"Warden's Heart"** drops from killing the Warden
		* This can be used to craft the **"Grimsteel"** armor set.
- The Enderdragon's loot has also been revamped, with the potential to drop a few of the following items:
    * **"Ender's Edge** is a legendary sword with the power to short-range teleport.
    * **"Enderic Heavy Blastshields"** are upgraded versions of the vanilla shield that also grant armor and (possibly) speed boosts.
- The Wither's loot has been slightly updated as well.
    * **"Withering Spirits"** are an epic treasure item that can drop from the wither.
- A few other Treasure Items are also now available through various means...
    * **"Bow of the Bounty"** (BOW)
    * **"Croco-Bow"** (BOW)
    * **"Infernium** (ARMOR SET)
    * **"The Starless Night"** (SWORD)
    * **"Miner's Hard hat"** (HELMET)
## Mobs
- **"Cave Traders"** now spawn rarely on players while mining. They offer rare (and sometimes random) trades for minerals, food, potions, and exclusive treasure items.

# Balances
- The Ultimate-exclusive **/warp Hideout** has been revamped with and experience cycler!
- **Economy is being re-balanced** slowly, so you may see some updates to the prices of spawners, etc.

# Upcoming content
- There should be some major changes upcoming with optimization of economy and new ways to spend, buy, and more.
- Seasonal vaults are being upgraded! You will soon be able to purchase additonal season vaults as well as vault perks.
- Teams are coming soon- share money, land, items, and... taxes?