---
title: "Halara v3.1"
date: 2022-15-6
author: Cooper Sullivan
authorLink: "https://coopersully.me"
tags: ["server", "documentation"]
categories: ["documentation"]
image: "images/posts/headers/season/3.png"
type: "featured"
draft: false
---

*This page is an update log for Halara’s development. If this log is for a version other than the most recent, the information below may not be an accurate depiction of Halara’s active server(s).
In addition to this, if you are reading this log within the first few minutes of it’s release, the changes below may not yet be fully added to Halara’s active server(s). These logs exist to better
connect the creative and development team behind Halara with it's users.*

***

# Bug fixes & immediate changes
## ... it was bad
Okay let's be honest- the first day and a half of season three for Halara were a little rough. The server
was, admittedly, updated a little prematurely and 1.19 (on the server side) was not stable enough to handle
the modifications that Halara presents.
## Chat fixes
* All chat properly works now, sorry about that
* Nicknames are back and modified just a bit, with nickname colors defaulting to your rank-tag color.
## Cave Traders
* Cave Traders were spawning *way* too frequently around the world, so their spawn-rate has been severely nerfed. I don't feel as if this change is too large, but if it becomes so in the future, I'd be happy to change it a bit to find the sweet-spot.

# Server store & rank changes
## Transparency
As the server gains more traction and the community grows, I thought it was important to focus on the server store. 
Don't get me wrong, everyone loves making money from Minecraft, but I want the ranks to feel balanced and worth-while. Another
issue I never want to run into is the server becoming a "pay-to-win" money scheme. I really value the players' experiences
and how the server and it's donation-related content is percieved. With that being said, the server store and all global ranks
and purchaseable packages have been modified slightly:
## Rank updates & agreement
* Above each category in the shop, there is a message detailing how Halara's donations are handled, their intended purpose, and a reminder that package descriptions may change at any time.
	* All of this has always been in the Terms of Service/Agreement when purchasing, but I wanted it to always be very clear to possible customers.
## Supporter Rank
* There is a new "rank" called *Supporter*. I say "rank" because really it's just a way to support the server, there aren't many perks involved.
* It's very clear on the package description how the supporter rank is being handled and it's a pay-what-you-want system that allows users to support the server in an affordable, customizeable fashion.
* The perks previously known as "Booster" perks for Halara's Discord Nitro Boosters have been moved to the supporter rank, and all Nitro boosters will immediately gain access to these perks.
* Supporter is a unique rank and stacks with any other donation rank (VIP, MVP, Ultimate) without overriding their perks.
